
Answer the following:

1) What are the access control modifiers (acm) provided in Java?

public, private & protected

2) Briefly explain each acm and how they differentiate from each other?

public - that member can be accessed anywhere inside your code, ie outside of the class in which it resides
private - can be accessed only by other members of its class, ie not outside of the class in which it resides
protected - comes into play when inheritance is involved, discussed more in ch. 8
default is public unless your program is broken down into packages

3) Why do we use acm's?

because it helps prevent the misuse of an object. By allowing access to private data only through
a well-defined set of methods, you can prevent improper values from being assigned to that
data—by performing a range check, for example.

4) What is the risk of not using acm's?

objects can be misused, users can change things you don't want them to or input info that is obviously wrong
(like assigning ages to be very very high, or negative)

5) Write a method signature that receives an object of type "Car" as a parameter.

void methodName(Car obj){
}

6) Write a method signature that returns an object of type "Car".

public Car methodName(parameters?){
}

7) What is a very important consideration to keep in mind when passing objects (hint: by reference) from one
method to another?

Each time a method that returns an object is invoked, a new object is created, and a reference to it is
returned to the calling routine. That object remains in existence until it's not referenced anymore.

8) What is method overloading?

When you have 2 or more methods of the same name in the same class, but have parameters of different data types.

9) Why is method overloading useful? (Hint: as compared to the implementation in the C language.)

Supports Java's one interface, multiple methods feature. In Java, it is easy to implement the same method for
different types of data, whereas in other languages, you would need to create a different method (with a different
name) for each type of data.

10) How do you overload a method? What signifies that a method is being overloaded?

You overload a method by creating multiple methods of the same name, but with differing data type parameters.
Multiple methods of the same name is what signifies that it's being overloaded.

11) Below, by writing just the method signature, demonstrate overloading a method 3 times.

public void methodName(int i)

public void methodName(double x)

public void methodName(String str)

12) How do you overload a constructor? What signifies that a constructor is being overloaded?

The same way you overload any other method. You'll know a constructor is being overloaded when you see multiple
versions of the Constructor with differing data type arguments.

13) Why do we overload constructors?

Make mutiple constructors each with different data type arguments (the argument can be an object).

14) Below, by writing just the constructor signature, demonstrate overloading a constructor 3 times.

ClassName(){}

ClassName(int i){}

ClassName(float f){}

15) What is recursion?

the process of a method calling itself

16) What important considerations must you keep in mind when using recursion?

That you must have a conditional statement somewhere to force the method to return without the recursive call,
if you don't, it will never return.

17) How do you make a method recursive?

have the method call itself

18) How do you escape a recursive method?

use an if to force a return for some condition

like in the factorial example:

int factR(int n) {
int result;

if(n==1) return 1;              // <--here
result = factR(n-1) * n;
return result;
}

19) Explain what "static" is all about?

access modifier that allows a class member to be used before an object of its class has been created

20) When should you use "static"?

when you want to define a class member that will be used independently of any object of that class
(note to self: static methods are called through the class, like: ClassName.methodName();)

21) What differentiates static variables from instance variables?

Objects do not receive their own copies of static variables, there is one copy that all objects share.
static variables are global variables

22) What is the quicksort? Briefly describe how the quicksort works.

The quicksort takes a value, preferably exactly in the middle, and sorts the data into 2 groups, either >= or <
the chosen value. This is then repeated for the remaining groups until every item is sorted.

23) What is a nested, or inner, class?

a class declared within another class

24) What is the scope of a nested class?

the scope of a nested class is bounded by its outer class (for this book we'll only use non-static nested
classes), so the inner Class has access to all of the variables/methods declared in the outer class

25) What is a variable-arity method?

a method that takes a variable number of arguments
ex: static void vaTest(int ... v){}

26) What makes a variable-arity method unique? When should you use it?

- the parameter list is not fixed & the variable length argument can be mixed with fixed arguments.
- it should be used when the number of arguments entered may vary

27) What is the shorthand name for variable-arity?

varargs

28) What important considerations must you keep in mind when using variable-arity methods? (hint: ambiguity)

- When using varargs with overloaded methods, ambiguity can lead to errors if it isn't clear which method to use.
vararg parameters can be empty and if you don't include that as an option, the computer won't know which
method to use

Ex: static void vaTest(int ... v) { // ...
    static void vaTest(int n, int ... v) { // ...

    if you call vaTest(2) // with an int,
    it's not clear which method is being invoked because both take an int, and a vararg int can be empty,
    so it could be either



